---
iip: 8
title: Meta Governance Module
status: WIP
author: <Richard Liang (@rliang)>
discussions-to:
created: <2020-11-06>
---

## Simple Summary

This IIP will add meta-governance support for AAVE, UNI, and COMP to the DeFi Pulse Index.

## Abstract

Add the GovernanceModule to the DeFi Pulse Index Set with support for non-staking governance protocols. These protocols are **AAVE**, **Compound** and **Uniswap**. Governance represents a single vote casted by \$INDEX token holders off-chain, which is then executed by the Index Multisig via the GovernanceModule. A GovernanceModule implementation is ready and can go live within 1-2 weeks pending audits.

FOR:

- Add the GovernanceModule to the DeFi Pulse Set as specified in this IIP

AGAINST:

- Do not add the GovernanceModule specified in this IIP to the DeFi Pulse Set

## Motivation

DPI is already one of the largest holders of YFI (#14, $1.5m), AAVE (#16, $1.9m), MKR (#33, 2.3m), REN (#27) COMP (#62, $1.7m), and UNI (#72, $2.5m), and can exert voting influence for the benefit of the Index Coop. This “meta-governance” can be used to support the addition of INDEX products onto lending and yield farming protocols, and assist constituents’ governance in reaching quorum. \$INDEX holders will collectively gain access to millions of dollars of voting power in these underlying protocols.

## Specification

### Overview

This IIP requests authorization to add the GovernanceModule (specified below) to the DeFi Pulse Index Set.
Once the GovernanceModule is enabled, meta-governance voting is carried out in the following steps:

1. A governance vote is called for AAVE, Compound or Uniswap.
1. The proposal is duplicated on Index Coop's snapshot page [here.](https://snapshot.page/#/index)
1. The voting period will end 24 hours before the underlying (AAVE, Compound, or UNI) governance vote ends.
1. \$INDEX holders vote on the meta governance proposal on Index Coop's snapshot page above.
1. At the end of the voting period if a 5% quorom is reached, the Index Coop multisig will vote according to the related snapshot proposal majority

Meta governance is still a relatively new field. Accordingly this IIP also reserves the right to disqualify any voter manipulation (e.g. flash loans attacks) used to gain an advantage in off-chain voting at the discretion of the Index multisig holders.

### Rationale

This specification uses the existing Set V2 infrastructure and adds integrations with AAVE, Compound and Uniswap governance infrastructure.

### Technical Specification

[Technical specification can be found here.](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ef3ffCGa0MEqCA1Wo3TokL16cxYjzmIaHGOggmPpFHs)

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
