---
iip: 32
title: Enable Snapshot Metagovernance in DPI
status: Proposed
author: Richard (@richard), Noah (@ncitron)
discussions-to: https://gov.indexcoop.com/t/iip-33-enable-snapshot-metagovernance-in-dpi/1215
created: 2021-04-13
---

## Simple Summary

This IIP adds meta-governance support for Snapshot voting to the DeFi Pulse Index starting with YFI and Balancer.

## Abstract

This IIP requests authorization to initially delegate Snapshot voting power in the Defi Pulse Index to `0x69Bdb276A17Dd90F9D3A545944CCB20E593ae8E3` via the GovernanceModule.

This is a bot that Set Labs currently runs and will act as the executor for YFI and Balancer meta-governance votes in accordance with the majority. Snapshot is not compatible with [multisig smart contracts](https://help.gnosis-safe.io/en/articles/4820197-how-to-participate-in-a-snapshot-poll), and therefore requires an EOA account to execute votes. The community retains the ability to revoke or reassign the delegation as needed.

Meta-governance voting for Yearn and Balancer is carried out in the following steps:

1. A governance vote is called for Yearn or Balancer on Snapshot.

1. The proposal is duplicated on Index Coop's snapshot page [here.](https://snapshot.page/#/index)

1. The meta governance voting period will end 24 hours before the underlying (YFI, Balancer) governance vote ends.

1. \$INDEX holders vote on the meta governance proposal on Index Coop's snapshot page above.

1. At the end of the voting period if a 5% quorum is reached, the delegate (Set Labs bot) will vote according to the related snapshot proposal majority

## Motivation

[Snapshot](https://docs.snapshot.org/) is an off-chain gasless multi-governance client with easy to verify and hard to contest results. Recently, Snapshot created a mechanism for smart contracts to [delegate](https://docs.snapshot.org/guides/delegation) their voting power to an end user account. This unlocks meta-governance in the DPI for all Snapshot spaces that have implemented a “delegation strategy” and do not require staking of assets (YFI and BAL).

As of April 13, the DPI holds $8M YFI and $3M BAL.

FOR

- Delegate Snapshot voting power from the DPI to 0x69Bdb276A17Dd90F9D3A545944CCB20E593ae8E3 for metagovernance vote execution

AGAINST

- Do not delegate Snapshot voting power from the DPI to 0x69Bdb276A17Dd90F9D3A545944CCB20E593ae8E3 for metagovernance vote execution

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
